_projects/1514-2-iff-confirmation-prompt-update.md, before:

---
title: Industrial Funding Fee Reports Update
permalink: /projects/iff-confirmation-prompt-update/
tags: 
  - project
  - payments
image: /assets/img/project-images/IFF.jpg
image-credit: https://www.flickr.com/photos/el_paulio/
abstract: /assets/abstracts/1514-2-iff-confirmation-prompt-update.pdf
year: 2017
type: Program Change and Evaluation
status: Complete
domain: Government Operations
agency: General Services Administration
summary: A confirmation prompt reduced financial self-reporting errors initially, but the effect did not persist in subsequent periods.
---
## What was the challenge?

Federal vendors making sales through the Federal Supply Schedules are required to pay a fee—the industrial funding fee (IFF)—that covers program operations costs. IFF payments owed are a fraction of the total sales made. To accurately determine how much vendors sold, and thus the correct IFF amount, the government uses a website where vendors are asked to self-report the quantity of total sales.

## What was the program change?

At no material cost, OES designed an electronic signature box included at the beginning of GSA’s online reporting portal to promote vigilant and accurate self-reporting of sales and reduce errors.

## How did the evaluation work?

Vendors were randomly assigned to use one of two options: 1) the existing reporting system (control); or 2) a modified interface (treatment) with the redesigned electronic signature box.

## What was the impact?

In the quarter immediately following the implementation of the confirmation prompt, the median self-reported sales amount was $445 higher for vendors signing at the top of the form, translating into an extra $1.59 million in IFF paid to the government in a single quarter. In subsequent quarters, self-reported sales were still higher for treatment group vendors than for those in the control group, but the difference in these quarters was not statistically significant.

Commit message:

Add article retraction for 1514-2 IFF

_projects/1514-2-iff-confirmation-prompt-update.md, after:

---
title: Industrial Funding Fee Reports Update
permalink: /projects/iff-confirmation-prompt-update/
tags: 
  - project
  - payments
image: /assets/img/project-images/IFF.jpg
image-credit: https://www.flickr.com/photos/el_paulio/
abstract: /assets/abstracts/1514-2-iff-confirmation-prompt-update-dec2021.pdf
year: 2017
type: Program Change and Evaluation
status: Complete
domain: Government Operations
agency: General Services Administration
summary: A confirmation prompt reduced financial self-reporting errors initially, but the effect did not persist in subsequent periods.
---
## What was the challenge?

Federal vendors making sales through the Federal Supply Schedules are required to pay a fee—the industrial funding fee (IFF)—that covers program operations costs. IFF payments owed are a fraction of the total sales made. To accurately determine how much vendors sold, and thus the correct IFF amount, the government uses a website where vendors are asked to self-report the quantity of total sales.

## What was the program change?

At no material cost, OES designed an electronic signature box included at the beginning of GSA’s online reporting portal to promote vigilant and accurate self-reporting of sales and reduce errors.

## How did the evaluation work?

Vendors were randomly assigned to use one of two options: 1) the existing reporting system (control); or 2) a modified interface (treatment) with the redesigned electronic signature box.

## What was the impact?

In the quarter immediately following the implementation of the confirmation prompt, the median self-reported sales amount was $445 higher for vendors signing at the top of the form, translating into an extra $1.59 million in IFF paid to the government in a single quarter. In subsequent quarters, self-reported sales were still higher for treatment group vendors than for those in the control group, but the difference in these quarters was not statistically significant.

*Update December 2021:* The abstract for this project was updated on December X, 2021 to include a retraction of a paper cited in the abstract. You can view the original abstract and verify our original upload date [here](https://github.com/gsa-oes/office-of-evaluation-sciences/blob/master/assets/abstracts/1514-2-iff-confirmation-prompt-update.pdf).
