---
title: Impact Evaluation of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) Training Program
permalink: /projects/deia-training/
tags: 
- project
image: /assets/img/project-images/2207-img.webp
image_alt_text: Woman placing sticky notes on wall
image-credit:  https://unsplash.com/photos/Oalh2MojUuk
analysis-plan: 
abstract: 
year: 2023  
type: Program Evaluation
domain: 
agency: Office of Personnel Management
status: Ongoing
summary: Analysis Plan Registration
featured: 
---

## What is the challenge? 
<a href="https://www.performance.gov/pma/" target="blank_">The President’s Management Agenda (PMA)</a> highlights the importance of strengthening and empowering the federal workforce as one of its three pillars. The <a href="https://assets.performance.gov/PMA/PMA-Learning-Agenda.pdf" target="blank_">PMA Learning Agenda</a> prioritizes building evidence on management structures, training, and tools that can be used to improve equity outcomes. Consistent with Executive Orders 13985 and 14035, many agencies offer training and educational content to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEIA) in the federal workforce. Building on existing academic research, there is opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness of DEIA training, including their short and long-term impact on changes in employee behavior and organizational climate surrounding DEIA.

## What is the evaluation design? 
The evaluation is a demonstration/research project and will use a clustered randomized controlled trial design to evaluate the impact of a rigorous DEIA training program for federal employees on long-term behavioral outcomes. This evaluation is a demonstration/research project that is a priority for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). The study will be completed in collaboration with the Better Government Lab at Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy, OPM, and the US Agency for International Development. The demonstration/research project will be implemented and evaluated with three federal agencies. 

## What did we learn? 
Check back for results!
