---
title: Teaching the Tax Code -- Earnings Responses to an Experiment with EITC Claimants
permalink: /Chetty-EITC-2009/
tags: library 
year: 2009
bottlenecks: 
  - Motivation
  - Comprehension 
delivery: 
  - Letter 
  - In-person 
interventions: 
  - Simplification 
  - Visual Format 
  - Personalization 
outcomes: 
  - Action  
  - Choice 
domain: 
  - Economic Opportunity
---
## Abstract Summary

This paper tests whether providing information about the Earned Income Tax Credit
(EITC) ampli?es the program?s e造ects on labor supply. We conducted a randomized ex-
periment with 43,000 EITC claimants at H&R Block in which tax preparers gave simple,
personalized information about the EITC schedule to half of their clients. Tracking subse-
quent earnings behavior, we ?nd substantial heterogeneity in treatment e造ects across the
1,300 tax professionals who assisted the clients involved in the experiment. Half of the tax
professionals, whom we term ?compliers,? induced treated clients to increase their EITC
refunds by choosing an earnings level closer to the peak of the EITC schedule. Clients
treated by complying tax professionals are 10% less likely to have very low incomes than
control group clients. The remaining tax preparers generate insigni?cant changes in EITC
amounts but increase the probability that their clients have incomes high enough to reach
the phase-out region. Treatment e造ects are stronger among the self-employed, but are also
substantial among wage earners, suggesting that information provision induced real labor
supply responses. When compared with other policy instruments, information has large
e造ects: complying tax preparers generate the same labor supply response along the inten-
sive margin as a 33% expansion of the EITC program, while non-complying tax preparers
induce the same response as a 5% tax rate cut.

## Author(s)

Raj Chetty and Emmanuel Saez

## Design Type

RCT

## Source

<a href="https://www.bus.umich.edu/otpr/papers/Chetty_Saez.pdf">Teaching the Tax Code:Earnings Responses to an Experiment with EITC Claimants</a>
