---
title: Thinking, Fast and Slow Some Field Experiments to Reduce Crime and Dropout in Chicago
permalink: /heller-field-2015/
tags: library 
year: 2015
bottlenecks: 
  - Attention  
  - Choice 
delivery: 
  - In-person 
interventions: 
  - Framing 
  - Action Steps 
  - Reminders 
  - Cost/Benefit 
  - Education 
outcomes: 
  - Action 
  - Choice
domain: 
  - Education  
  - Justice
---
## Abstract Summary

This paper describes how automatic behavior can drive disparities in youth outcomes like
delinquency and dropout. We suggest that people often respond to situations without conscious
deliberation. While generally adaptive, these automatic responses are sometimes deployed in
situations where they are ill-suited. Although this is equally true for all youths, disadvantaged youths
face greater situational variability. This increases the likelihood that automaticity will lead to
negative outcomes. This hypothesis suggests that interventions that reduce automaticity can lead to
positive outcomes for disadvantaged youths. We test this hypothesis by presenting the results of
three large-scale randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of interventions carried out on the south and
west sides of Chicago that seek to improve the outcomes of low-income youth by teaching them to
be less automatic. Two of our RCTs test a program called Becoming a Man (BAM) developed by
Chicago-area non-profit Youth Guidance; the first, carried out in 2009-10, shows participation
improved schooling outcomes and reduced violent-crime arrests by 44%, while the second RCT in
2013-14 showed participation reduced overall arrests by 31%. The third RCT was carried out in the
Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) in 2009- 11 and shows reductions in
return rates of 21%. We also present results from various survey measures suggesting the results do
not appear to be due to changes in mechanisms like emotional intelligence or self-control. On the
other hand results from some decision-making exercises we carried out seem to support reduced
automaticity as a key mechanism.

## Author(s)

Sara B. Heller, Anuj K. Shah, Jonathan Guryan, Jens Ludwig,
Sendhil Mullainathan, Harold A. Pollack

## Design Type

RCT

## Source

<a href="http://home.uchicago.edu/ludwigj/papers/CBT%20paper%20thinking%20fast%20and%20slow%20NBER%20WP%20w21178.pdf">Thinking, Fast and Slow? Some Field Experiments to Reduce Crime and Dropout in Chicago</a>
