---
title: SMSaude--Evaluating Mobile Phone Text Reminders to Improve Retention in HIV Care for Patients on Antiretroviral Therapy in Mozambique
permalink: /Davey-text-reminder-2016/
tags: library 
year: 2016
bottlenecks: 
  - Attention 
  - Motivation
  - Implementation
delivery:  
  - Text 
interventions:  
  - Action Steps 
  - Reminders 
  - Social Norms  
  - Education 
outcomes: 
  - Action 
domain: 
  - Health 
  - International Development 
---
## Abstract Summary

Objective: We evaluated whether regular mobile phone text
reminders improved patients’ retention in antiretroviral therapy
(ART) care in Mozambique.

Design: SMSaúde was a randomized control trial of HIV-infected
patients on ART who received regular text message reminder vs.
standard of care at 3 public health facilities in Maputo Province,
Mozambique. The primary outcome was retention in HIV care.
Between November 2011 and March 2012, 830 eligible HIVinfected
patients on ART were randomized 1:1 to the text reminder
intervention or standard of care.

Methods: We used Kaplan–Meier estimators and log-rank tests to
compare proportions of patients who received SMS reminders who were
retained in HIV care compared to the control group who received
standard of care. Post hoc analyses were performed using Cox
proportional hazards models stratified by urban/rural facility and when
initiated ART (#3months vs..3 months). Hazard ratios and confidence
intervals (CIs) are reported. Analysis was with intention to treat.

Results: Patients who received text messages had lower attrition
from HIV care at 12 months, though the difference was nonsignificant
(RR: 0.68, 95% CI: 0.41 to 1.13). Among urban patients,
text messages improved retention in HIV care (RR: 0.54, 95% CI:
0.31 to 0.95). Intervention patients newly initiated on ART (,3
months) had lower attrition than control patients (HR: 0.54; 95% CI:
0.23 to 0.91), especially urban newly initiated patients (HR: 0.20,
95% CI: 0.06 to 0.64). Text messages had no effect on retention
among rural patients.

Conclusions: Text messages did not improve retention in HIV care
for all patients on ART but improved retention in care of urban
patients and those who recently started ART and received text
reminders compared with standard of care.

## Author(s)

Dvora Joseph Davey, MPH, PhD, José António Nhavoto, PhD,
Orvalho Augusto, MD, Walter Ponce, MPH, Daila Traca, MSc,
Alexandre Nguimfack, MD, and Cesar Palha de Sousa, MD, PhD

## Design Type

RCT

## Source

<a href="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Dvora_Joseph_Davey/publication/304185465_SMSaude_Evaluating_Mobile_Phone_Text_Reminders_to_Improve_Retention_in_HIV_Care_for_Patients_on_Antiretroviral_Therapy_in_Mozambique/links/579726c908ae33e89faea408.pdf">SMSaude: Evaluating Mobile Phone Text Reminders to Improve Retention in HIV Care for Patients on Antiretroviral Therapy in Mozambique</a>
