---
title: Antipsychotic Drug Use-HHS Has Initiatives to Reduce Use among Older Adults in Nursing Homes, but Should Expand Efforts to Other Settings
permalink: /GAO-Antipsychotics-2015/
tags: library 
year: 2015
bottlenecks: 
  - Comprehension 
  - Choice 
delivery: 
  - Email 
  - Letter 
  - Website  
  - In-person 
  - Structural Change
interventions: 
  - Education 
outcomes: 
  - Choice 
  - Awareness
domain: 
  - Health 
---
## Abstract Summary

Antipsychotic drugs are frequently prescribed to older adults with dementia. GAO’s analysis found that about one-third of older adults with dementia who spent more than 100 days in a nursing home in 2012 were prescribed an antipsychotic, according to data from Medicare’s prescription drug program, also known as Medicare Part D. Among Medicare Part D enrollees with dementia living outside of a nursing home that same year, about 14 percent were prescribed an antipsychotic.

Experts and research identified patient agitation or delusions, as well as certain setting-specific characteristics, as factors contributing to the prescribing of antipsychotics to older adults. For example, experts GAO spoke with noted that antipsychotic drugs are often initiated in hospital settings and carried over when older adults are admitted to a nursing home. In addition, experts and research have reported that nursing home staff levels, particularly low staff levels, lead to higher antipsychotic drug use.

Agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) have taken several actions to address antipsychotic drug use by older adults in nursing homes, as described in HHS’s National Alzheimer’s Plan; however, none have been directed to settings outside of nursing homes, such as assisted living facilities or individuals’ homes. While the National Alzheimer’s Plan has a goal to improve dementia care for all individuals regardless of residence, HHS officials said that efforts to reduce antipsychotic use have not focused on care settings outside nursing homes, though HHS has done work to support family caregivers in general. Stakeholders GAO spoke to indicated that educational efforts similar to those provided for nursing homes should be extended to other settings. Extending educational efforts to caregivers and providers outside of the nursing home could help lower the use of antipsychotics among older adults with dementia living both inside and outside of nursing homes.

## Author(s)

Government Accountability Office 

## Design Type

Data Analysis

## Source

<a href="https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-15-211">Antipsychotic Drug Use: HHS Has Initiatives to Reduce Use among Older Adults in Nursing Homes, but Should Expand Efforts to Other Settings</a>
