---
title: Reminders to Pay -- Using Behavioral Economics to Increase Child Support Payments
permalink: /baird-reminders-2015/
tags: library 
year: 2015
bottlenecks: 
  - Attention 
  - Motivation
  - Comprehension 
  - Choice 
  - Implementation
delivery: 
  - Letter 
  - Phone 
interventions: 
  - Simplification 
  - Visual Format 
  - Framing 
  - Action Steps 
  - Reminders 
  - Timing 
  - Commitment 
  - Messenger 
outcomes: 
  - Action 
domain: 
  - Economic Opportunity
  - Government Operations
---
## Abstract Summary

This report presents findings from two behavioral interventions designed to
increase the collection of child support payments in Franklin County, Ohio. The
interventions were intended to increase the number of parents who made a child
support payment, as well as increase the dollar amount of total collections per
parent. In particular, the Franklin County Child Support Enforcement Agency
(FCCSEA) was focused on noncustodial parents who do not have their child support
payments automatically deducted from their paychecks, as these parents
need to take action each month to make a payment. Using a process of behavioral
diagnosis and design, the BIAS team found that over half of the parents who
owed child support did not have a recent history of making payments via income
withholding, and moreover, that many of these parents were not being sent
regular payment reminders. The BIAS team hypothesized that reminding these
parents to pay their child support could increase the occurrence and amount of
their payments.

The BIAS team, in collaboration with FCCSEA, tested two low-cost payment
reminder interventions for parents who did not have income withholding,
using random assignment experiments over four months. The first test targeted
parents to whom payment reminder notices were not being sent. The second
test targeted parents who were already being mailed monthly payment reminder
notices. This second test compared the effectiveness of a new payment reminder
notice that incorporated behavioral principles with the current payment reminder
notice being sent by Ohio’s Child Support Payment Central (CSPC) — the
state’s payment processing center.

The first test found that reminders produced a modest but statistically significant
increase of 2.9 percentage points in the number of parents who made at
least one child support payment over four months. Compared with the control
group payment rate of 48.5 percent, 51.5 percent of noncustodial parents who
were sent a payment reminder made a payment. However, there was no statistically
significant increase in total collections per person, suggesting that these
additional payments were small. In the second test, the redesigned payment
reminder notice and current CSPC payment reminder performed comparably,
and no statistically significant differences in the number of parents paying or the
dollar amount of payments were found. The findings reviewed in this report are
consistent with the existing behavioral science literature, which demonstrates
that reminders can influence people’s actions. However, the modest findings
suggest that the targeted noncustodial parents may have a limited ability to pay,
or that the behavioral bottlenecks they face were not adequately addressed by
the interventions.

## Author(s)

Peter Baird, Leigh Reardon, Dan Cullinan, Drew McDermott, Patrick Landers

## Design Type

RCT

## Source

<a href="https://www.mdrc.org/sites/default/files/BIAS_Ohio-Franklin_County_2015_FR.pdf">REMINDERS TO PAY: Using Behavioral Economics to Increase Child Support Payments</a>
