---
layout: default
---

---

layout: page
title: Apply
permalink: /apply/
image: /assets/img/about.jpg

---

## Call for 2017 Applicants

The Office of Evaluation Sciences (OES) is currently accepting applications for a fellowship beginning in October 2017 in Washington, D.C.. Based the General Services Administration, OES is a team of applied researchers tasked with incorporating behavioral insights into federal programs, and testing and learning what works. OES partners with federal agencies to evaluate the effectiveness of new evidence-based interventions on program outcomes and  provides agencies evidence to make informed programmatic decisions.

Over the past two years, OES has completed over 30 randomized evaluations with agency partners. OES has made major strides serving agencies and improving federal programs by applying and testing the impact of behavioral insights on a diverse range of agency outcomes.  Dozens of agencies have joined this effort, creating innovative partnerships to tackle some of the most pressing challenges in the United States and abroad. OES has rigorously tested insights on diverse agencies priorities such as promoting retirement security, responding to climate change, supporting criminal justice reform, assisting job seekers, helping families get health coverage and stay healthy, and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of Government operations.

## Fellowship Details

OES is accepting applications for fellowships starting October 2017 based at the General Services Administration in Washington DC full-time. Most team members join OES on-loan from academic, nonprofit, or government offices on either a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, typically for one to two years. Team members have joined from a variety of universities (e.g. City University of New York, Northeastern University, North Carolina State University, Reed College, University of Arizona, and University of Washington), non-profits (e.g. NBER, ideas42), and federal departments (e.g. Department of Education, Department of Agriculture, Housing and Urban Development Department). Other types of federal appointments may be offered on a limited basis.

The OES team combines academic expertise with experience implementing and evaluating evidence-based interventions in complex settings. Responsibilities of OES Fellows include:

* Driving project implementation on 3-5 projects at any given time, including collaborating and communicating regularly with agency partners to ensure that: intervention ideas and the pilot design meet agency goals; field experiments are implemented as planned; and the implications of results are clearly understood.

* Understanding agency objectives and priorities, identifying opportunities to translate findings from the social and behavioral sciences into concrete recommendations.

* Working directly with agency collaborators to design and rigorously test interventions.

* Performing data analyses and interpretation.

* Distilling findings into reports, policy memos and academic publications.

* Assisting, as needed, on additional projects being managed by other team members.

* Attending weekly team meetings, providing updates on project status, and being generally available to collaborate on and contribute to internal team tasks.

* Representing the team by attending and presenting at internal government and external talks, conferences, and workshops.

## Applicant Profile

OES team members must possess a unique set of technical and professional skills. This includes knowledge of at least one field within the social and behavioral sciences, the ability to creatively apply research knowledge within the federal government setting, the ability to design and manage the day-to-day operations of a large operational field trial, and exceptional communication and interpersonal skills. The OES is currently seeking team members with the following types of expertise:
Fellows have substantial expertise in the social and behavioral sciences field. Typically they are researchers with a PhD in a social or behavioral science field (e.g., economics, psychology, political science, statistics, sociology, public policy, business, etc.).
Associate Fellows are typically pursuing a PhD in the social and behavioral sciences field, have recently completed a PhD or post-doc, or have a Master’s Degree plus two or more years of relevant experience.

Additionally, applicants must possess:

* General knowledge of applied social and behavioral sciences and specialized knowledge of at least one domain of a study within the social and behavioral sciences.

* Ability to think creatively about how insights from the social and behavioral sciences can be translated into concrete interventions that are practically feasible within specific Federal programs. Curiosity and willingness to learn about federal agencies and their unique practical and regulatory constraints.

* Knowledge of evaluation design and analysis strategies, such as randomized controlled trials.

* Statistical competency in at least one data analytic programming language (e.g., R, Stata, Matlab, SAS, Python).

* Ability to effectively explain technical concepts to a broad audiences, orally and in writing.

* Strong and concise writing skills, including under tight deadlines. Excellent project management and organizational skills.

* Flexibility, self-motivation, and the ability to manage multiple tasks efficiently in a team.

Preferred qualifications include one or more of the following:

* Significant experience conducting randomized evaluations in field settings.

* Experience working with government programs, policies, and/or operations.

* Advanced statistical and data skills, including experience handling large administrative data sets.

* Professional design skills e.g. interaction design, visual communication design, etc.

* Expertise in one or more U.S domestic policy sectors.

## Application Details

Applicants may apply online via the link below. The deadline to submit is 5pm ET Monday, January 16, 2017. Finalists will be invited to an interview process that will include a writing exercise, up to two stages of interviews, and an in-person research presentation. We expect that final decisions will be communicated to candidates by mid-March.